So this is kind of a lot to
think about this a little bit as
a public service announcement
around things you should do and
not do, predominantly not
do with state management.
I regret to inform you that
I have seen all of these.
So this is like they go and usually like
most things like this don't happen from
someone right here, they come from like
a series of refactorings over time,
where you end up in a given situation
through many small well meaning things.
And so just to kind of call them out
when you see them cuz they could have
some some implications.
So one of the things, we do need to
remember is let's say that we don't
say of any kind of,
with props, we have PropTypes,
so we can say, there should be a string or
there should be a number.
You can get a little squarely with state.
Now if you something like
typescript a flow, some issue,
there should always be a number,
there should always be a string.
But it is important to
realize that with state,
you don't necessarily have the same
safeguards that you have with props.
And so a lot of times I like
this damn even off tweet,
which you have to use in any talking about
react you have to like reference at least
one damage even off tweet in order for
you to be taken seriously.
So this is my foray into
that which is all right,
should we keep something in actual react
state, can we calculate it from the props?
I'll go into what that means.
If you can calculate it from
props that were passed in,
you should not store it in state.
And we'll see a quick
example of that in a second.
If you're not using it in the render
method, you should not store Oregon State.
The reason we have to use this
as a state or the hook for
your state is because we want to be like,
I want to update this value.
And I also want to tell react to go ahead
and rerender to figure out what changed.
If you're not rendering it you don't need
to store it in state because you don't
want react to run it.
You can just use regular old JavaScript.
You can store it as a class property.
You can store it in a variable.
You can do anything along those lines.
You can put it on a method.
You only want to do stuff that when it
changes, I want to trigger that rerender.
If those two things aren't true,
then maybe yeah,
you should be using back state for it.
So what does it mean by
derivations of props?
A really great example that I've seen from
time to time is when you take two other
things, and the easiest example here is,
all right, this component got in a first
name and a last name property, for showing
a user profile or something like that.
Cool, let's put a space in between and
store that in state.
The problem is, is, and
we'll see this in a much later example
when we're actually using routing, but
the same component can be reused
on the page with different props.
And since this only happens in
the constructor, what happens there is,
this won't get re-calculated, right?
You'll still have the old,
full name, right,
which is probably not what you want.
And again, that is not necessarily
an error, per se, it is how react behaves.
So you're not gonna get an error message.
It's just gonna be one of those things
where, suddenly, it's not doing the thing
you think it's supposed to do, and
you don't know how to handle that.
So what should you do?
Well, you can just put the props
together as you need them.
So you could do it in
the render method like this.
Now, if the props change that
will trigger the render method,
everything will work as expected.
If you don't like that, and
using a class component,
you could theoretically
make your own method.
You'll notice the get key word here.
All get does,
is it lets you call it like a property
without having to use the parenthesis.
So that gives you effectively
the same effect, but
in a way it will actually
respond to the process.
We're not actually kinda
accidentally caching stuff and
state that you shouldn't.
And if you don't wanna shove everything
to the render method like I saw before,
you can break stuff out.
So, for instance,
if you wanted to pull out,
render in this user profile component,
you can break it out.
This pattern works all over the place and
if it doesn't use this anywhere,
you could actually just pull it
out into a regular old function,
this would actually be more performance.
Because instead of getting
called every time,
it's just one place that's hoisted
up there and to find once.
There's actually battle plug-ins that
will try to go through your code and
do this for you as well.
All right, don't use state for
things you're not going to render.
So this is a really, again,
[LAUGH] inspired by a true story.
Which is like, cool, we wanted to hold
on to this web socket connection or
in this case, like this is a set interval,
the key polling.
But we wanted to hold on to this thing and
continue polling, right and
we'll hold on to state so that we can
access it when the component will unmount.
Like, you don't need to do that.
You can do it with other
life cycle methods, right?
But a lot of times if you don't know
that happens when you think that like,
I need to store this but
you're not rendering it.
>> About the last example that you had
up there with the alternative approach
is that the reason why I guess I'm looking
what about get derived state from props,
the life cycle method there the static
method that's available there?
>> Yeah,
>> You see a lot of people saying like,
yes this is okay or no,
don't do this because it's bad.
>> Is I have never been convinced
that you need to do it.
>> Okay.
>> Right,
I have never seen a situation where
something similar didn't work out right.
A lot of times a non zero part of my
job is to ask why seven times in a row.
We have to use it.
Why?
Why that?
And then eventually is that we don't
actually have to do that, right?
And it's hard in the in the esoteric but
generally speaking,
I haven't found that we always,
rarely do we actually need it.
Does it probably exist in
the codebase that I work on?
It's probably in there somewhere, right?
But generally speaking in a code review,
it usually doesn't pass the kind
of scrutiny of like,
is there kind of a simpler thing?
Because it's really when you're
doing very tricky stuff like that,
to well six months from the you
understand why you did it, right?
And we all thing that we're like
poets when we write comments, and
that we'll always understand what it is,
that never happens.
>> So even before, you did say too,
there's no silver bullet to anything.
>> Mm-hm, yep.
>> But the ideas is that even if you have
to compose multiple pieces of properties
together, of plops together, you don't
necessarily want to store those in state.
>> Yep.
>> Only when have you ever run into
example when you do actually you want to
store them in the state.
>> No,
>> Okay.
>> [LAUGH] That's also just trying to dig
through my memory banks real quick like
I'm sure someone I work with
could get blamed me on something.
And unclear if I was right.
But I'm gonna go with a no as my kind of
like gut check on that one All right.
And then finally,
you can use sensible defaults.
If you are gonna set something with
a component mounts, just make sure that,
cuz if it's gonna be an array,
just start out with an empty array.
That way you don't have to do
conditional logic in the render.
Cuz if you're gonna map over undefined,
that's gonna go poorly for you.